ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 18
to actuate o r select operating conditions o r components. A four-position (up/down,
left/right) momentary switch was also used on the LM for manual positioning of the
rendezvous radar antenna. Momentary positions were used to initiate a specific action
requiring current for only a short time, such as jettisoning the launch-escape tower or
operating a latching relay o r valve.

       Maintaining switches were used for most applications. An inherent advantage of
the maintaining-type switch is a visual indication of switch position and, therefore, of
system and vehicle configuration. The momentary-type switch, in which the handle is
spring-loaded to return to another position, does not give such inherent status indica-
tion. For most functions initiated with momentary switches, such a s opening a latching
valve, some type of adjacent status indicator was necessary. This requirement f o r a
status indicator to be used with most momentary toggle switches meant that a n addi-
tional component and more panel space would be required than if a maintaining-type
toggle switch were used. Status indicators provided with momentary switches,
however, had the added advantage of providing the end-item status of the equipment
being controlled, whereas a maintaining switch, i n itself, gave no such information.

         Most of the toggle switches used on the Apollo vehicles had a wedge-shaped tab
handle that provided the crewman a large purchase a r e a with which to actuate the
switch while wearing a pressurized glove. Toggle switches that had locking mecha-
nisms incorporated into the handle to keep the switch f r om being thrown inadvertently
were also used. These lever-lock switches (fig. 5) had la r ge , bat-shaped handles and
were used extensively on the LM spacecraft. An additional feature of the LM toggle
switches was a radioluminescent (RL) tip on both regular and lever-lock handles. The
RL tips enabled quick determination of the switch position even when the cabin flood-
lights were dimmed. Alternate approaches
were used to guard and to illuminate C M
toggle switches. Command module toggle
switches were recessed within a trough and
guarded with adjacent wickets (fig. 6). The
toggle switches were lit by spill lighting
from the edge of the electroluminescent
( E L ) nomenclature overlay.

      The operating characteristics of the
toggle switches were approximately 3 to
44.5 newtons (10 to 160 ounces) of actu-
ating force (depending on the number of
poles), 34" f 8" of throw for two-position
switches, and 17"  *  4" of throw for three-
position switches. The force values were
acceptable, but a lower value for the upper
limit of actuating force would have been
preferable from an operational viewpoint.
The possibility of increasing the deflection
for three-position switches should a lso be
considered in future designs because many
of these switches have been mistakenly
mispositioned o r monitored (or both) on                    -
                                                  Figure 5. Control panel showing
Apollo missions.                                        lever -lock switches.


10


ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 19
                              -
      Pushbutton switches. Pushbutton
switches were used for applic ations requir ing
the rapid initiation of a function, for high-
frequency-of-use situations, and for appli-
cations requiring a combined control/signal
device. Pushbutton switches were most
widely used for applications requiring the
rapid initiation of a function. In the CM,
pushbutton switches were used mostly as
manual backup controls to initiate various
sequential events during launch and entry;
in the LM, they were used to back up main
engine commands and to shut down the
descent engine on lunar touchdown. Push-
button switches, i n a keyboard format,
w ere used to enter data into the guidance
computers. Master a l a r m pushbutton/
signal lights i n both vehicles servi?d to
indicate caution and warning (C&W)condi-             Figure 6. - Wickets guarding the CM
tions and to reset the a l a r m circuitry.                     toggle switches.

      Square pushbuttons, slightly larger than those normally used in a ir c r a f t o r i n the
Gemini spacecraft, were used f o r most applications. The la r ge r siz e (approximately
2.03 centimeters. (0.8 inch) on a side) aided actuation and permitted the u s e of la r ge r
legends.

          Rectangular mas t er a l a r m pushbutton lights, approximately 6.5 square centi-
m e t e r s (1 square inch) i n area, were used in both the CM and the LM. Pushbutton-
switch operating characteristics were 3 to 21 newtons (10 to 74 ounces) of actuating
f o r c e and 0.317 to 1.5 centimeters (0.125 to 0.6 inch) of travel.

                         -
      Rotary switches. Rotary switches were used when four o r more detent positions
w ere required for discrete functions, o r i n applications that required many poles o r
high-current capacities. In the latter applications, the design of a rotary switch was
generally m o r e suitable than the design of a toggle switch.

       Rotary switches were highly advantageous i n accomplishing numerous switching
functions, but this capability i n turn increased the criticality of a failure. A mechan-
ically jammed rotary switch, for example, could inhibit all the switching functions
normally performed by the control. Therefore, the LM rotary switches we r e posi-
tioned in the most critical detent positions before Earth launch; and, in later lunar
modules, mission-critical rotary switches were replaced with (and by an additional
number of) toggle switches.

     A standardized rotary control knob (fig. 7) was used in both the Apollo vehicles.
The knob was equipped with a circular s k i r t to allow f or transillumination of an integral




                                                                                              11


ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 20
pointer indicium. Actuating forces ranged
f r o m 8.5 to 85 centimeter-newtons (12 to
120 inch-ounces). A standard 30" spacing
between adjacent positions w a s used f or all
rotary switches.

       Continuously variable controls. -
Continuously variable controls, such as
potentiometers, rheostats, and variable
transformers, were used for functions
requiring precise control and adjustment
of system o r equipment parameters. Some
of these functions included the control of
lighting intensities, audio volume, and
antenna positioning . Conti nuou sly vari ab1e
controls were equipped with thumbwheel
and rotary-switch-type knobs. Thumb-
wheels were used predominantly for audio
controls and knobs for lighting and antenna
controls. The periphery of thumbwheels                        -
                                                   Figure 7. Standardized rotary control
was marked with integers from one to nine            knobs used in both the LM and
for indexing the control.                            the CM.

      A slightly different type of rotary control knob was used to operate a stepper
motor. Because a stepper motor has little inherent friction to maintain it at the set
position, a device that would hold the control a t the selected position w a s necessary.
This locking was accomplished by the use of a knob resembling the other rotary con-
trol knobs but having an internal locking mechanism. Pushing in the top portion of
the knob unlocked the control and allowed i t to be positioned freely. Releasing the
knob locked the stepper motor in place.

       To operate continuously variable controls with rotary-switch-type knobs required
a torque of 6 to 25 centimeter-newtons (8 to 36 inch-ounces). Failure to specify a
lower acceptable limit for rheostat actuating torque in the LM procurement specifica-
tion resulted i n the delivery of several units having torques of l e s s than 1. 4 centimeter-
newtons ( 2 inch-ounces). The addition of external friction washers between the control
knob and the panel compensated for this improper torque value. Thumbwheel controls
required 1.4 to 4 centimeter-newtons (2 to 6 inch-ounces) to operate. Early LM
thumbwheels were also delivered with improper torque values. Because requirements
documentation w a s misinterpreted, early thumbwheel units having torques of
14 centimeter-newtons (20 inch-ounces) and gr e a te r we r e delivered; but these units
were used "as is" in nonflight applications. A standard 300" deflection was imple-
mented for all continuously variable controls.

      Circuit breakers. - Circuit bre a ke r s we r e used primarily to protect electrical
circuits. Sometimes, however, circuit b r e a k e r s we r e used as control devices; this
application occurred mostly on the LM, where weight was very critical. In all these
instances, though, an attempt was made to design the syste m s so that switching actions
were limited in number and conducted under a no-load condition. Circuit br e a ke r s
were procedurally used on both vehicles to disable c r itic a l circuits during periods
when they were not required.

12


ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 21
       The circuit breakers used on the Apollo vehicles were the push/pull type and had
a small, black knob. An aluminum band was displayed when the breaker was open. A
white band originally used was deleted because the paint flaked and chaffed. Some
difficulty was encountered i n visually monitoring the lower contrast silver-colored
bands in the lower level lighting environment of the LM. This condition resulted i n
the misconfiguration of certain circuit breakers by the Apollo flight crews. To avoid
this situation in future programs, crew station lighting simulations should be per-
formed to verify altered D&C color schemes.

       Circuit breakers were particularly susceptible to inadvertent actuation o r
damage. This susceptibility was especially prevalent on the LM because of the amount
of crew activity associated with lunar surface operations (e. g. , backpack donning and
doffing). Therefore, special precautions were taken in both vehicles to protect the
circuit breakers by recessing the panels (fig. 8) or by providing b a r r i e r guards
(fig. 9) o r by both methods.


                                         .




      Figure 8. - Recessed panel.                    Figure 9. - B a r r ie r guards.


      All circuit breakers were the "trip free" type currently used on military air-
craft; that is, a "tripped" breaker could not be manually overridden (closed).
Nominally, 53.4 newtons (192 ounces) of force were required to close and 27 newtons
(96 ounces) to open the circuit breakers. Total travel w a s approximately 0.5 centi-
meter (0.2 inch).




                                                                                        13
