A-2



reliability  of television  coverage on the lunar surface.  The primary
guidance programs were modified to permit reentr_ into the automatic and
attitude hold modes of operation after manual control was exercised; this
change was incorporated to provide improved final descent capability in
the event of obscuration   from lunar dust.  The event timer was modified
so that after it counted down to zero, it would count up automatically
and thus reduce crew workload during critical events.     The descent pro-
pulsion system was changed to include a bypass line around the fuel/helium
heat exchanger such that if the heat exchanger should freeze during vent-
ing, pressures would equalize on both sides of the heat exchanger.      The
sensing point for the water separator drain tank was changed from the
location of the carbon dioxide sensor to a point upstream of the suit
fans, thus eliminating migration of water to the carbon dioxide sensor
and improving its operation.    A removable flow limiter was added to the
inlet for the primary lithium hydroxide cartridge to reduce the water
separator speed and to minimize the possibility    of condensed water in
the suit.   A dust filter was incorporated   at the inlet of the cabin fan
to reduce the amount of free lunar dust in the cabin.     Redesigned water/
glycol and oxygen disconnects having redundant seals were installed to
improve reliability and to permit up to 5 degrees of connector misalign-
ment.   To decrease the possibility  of lunar dust contamination,   a brush
was added for cleaning the suits before ingress, the bristles on the
vacuum brush were changed from Teflon to Nylon, and a cover was added to
the lunar sample tote bag.

      The extravehicular   mobility unit underwent several modifications     to
improve lunar surface capability.      Scuff patches were added to the pres-
sure garment assembly to prevent wear of the thermal/meteoroid       garment
caused by chaffing of the lunar boots.       A device was added in the neck
area of the pressure suit to provide drinking water to the crewmen during
extravehicular   activity.   A center eyeshade was installed at the top of
the extravehicular   visor assembly to reduce incoming glare and to aid in
dark adaptation when entering shadow.       Abrasion cover gloves were included
to be used over the extravehicular     gloves to reduce wear and heat conduc-
tion during core drilling operations.       The electrical connnector on the
remote control unit for the portable life support system was redesigned
to permit easier engagement.      The manufacturing   technique for the regu-
lator in the oxygen purge system was modified to minimize the possibility
of gas leakage.


                       A.3   EXPERIMENT   EQUIPMENT



      The Apollo lunar surface experiment package stowed for Apollo 13
was similar to that for Apollo 12.    However, the solar wind spectrometer,
magnetometer,   and suprathermal ion detector, included on Apollo 12, were
