 Code    Control/Indicator                   Function

                              momentary spring loaded RESET
                              position immediately resets 9-M-ll
                              to zero. Zero is maintained until a
                              start pulse is initiated by actuation of
                              9-S-12. In the UP position the timer
                              will count in an increasing direction
                              to 59 minutes and 59 seconds, return
                              to zero, and begin counting up again.
                              In the DOWN position the timer will
                              count in a decreasing direction from
                              a preset value to 0 minutes and 0 sec­
                              onds, then return to 59 minutes and
                              59 seconds, and count down again.

9-S-12   TIMER CONT switch This t h r e e -position toggle (START-
         Mom-main-mom      STOP) has two momentary spring
                           loaded positions. In the START posi­
                           tion the event timer will begin count­
                           ing in a direction selected by 9-S-li.
                           In the STOP position the count is
                           stopped and frozen until either the
                           START position is again selected or
                           the RESET/COUNT switch is
                           actuated.

9-S-13   MIN SLEW             These toggles are used to set the
         CONTROL switch       four digits of 9-M-ll. They have two
                              momentary spring loaded positions
                              (TENS-UNITS), which permit reset­
                              ting each of the four digits indepen­
9-S-14   SEC SLEW             dently. Positioning 9-S-13 to the
         CONTROL switch       TENS position slews the tens column
         Two 3-position       digit of the minutes pair at the rate
         Toggles Mom-         of two digits per second as long as
         main-mom             the toggle is held in this position. In
                              the UNITS position the unit column
                              digit of the minutes pair is changed
                              at a rate of two digits per second.
                              All digits change in an increasing
                              direction, regardless of the posi­
                              tion of 9-S-ll. In the center main­
                              tain position the slewing function is
                              disabled. 9-S-14 is used in the same
                              manner to set the seconds pair of
                              digits on the events timer indicator.

9-S-17   X-POINTER SCALE      These two-position toggles (HI MULT-
         switch (CDR)         LO MULT) control the scale range of
                              9-M-2 and 9-M-3.




                             4-63
